# Time, Movement and Action

so, I have a bold plan: I want to implement "realtime" turn-based combat, and action in general, in
the vein of games like HackMaster.

that is, when you choose an action, you just begin doing something; that something may have several
steps, and may well be interrupted.

Take firing a bow: you must, at a minimum:
 - draw an arrow
 - nock it to the bowstring
 - draw the bow fully
 - aim at your target
 - release the arrow

This is a best-case scenario, and assumes your bow is already strung and in hand; that your target
is relatively stationery, rather than moving between cover or engaged in a melee; that
gusting wind or the circumstances of battle don't require waiting for a shot to present itself; etc.

Your concentration might be broken by any number of things while all of this occurs, up to and 
including your own beheading.

Rather than a series of immediate actions, chosen with perfect information and enacted as a sequence
of immediate events, in DVERGR skirmishes occur in parallel. 

Knowing what your opponents are trying to do is a great advantage, and the skill in observing them -
or in miscommunicating your own intentions - is a good deal of the difference between a veteran and
a new recruit.

Movement likewise happens in "real time", and it takes the same time it takes to swing a sword 
to cover ground (influenced by several factors, including your momentum, how careful or conservative
of your stamina you are, and how reckless your disregard for the hazards of a battlefield). It takes 
time to reach maximum speed, or to change direction once you have. Drawing a dagger can be nearly 
instant, given a free and practiced hand and a well placed sheath, but it takes considerably longer
to rummage through a rucksack or to stow a shield, and armour is best donned with trained assistance
well before hostilities are in train.

Combat is dynamic; standing still is ill-advised, and the careful (and lucky) choice of manouvre and
positioning can make as much difference as the reach of a spear or the bludgeoning mass of a flanged
mace when confronting armoured opponents. Many knights' duels end on the ground in a desperate 
brawl, with a dirk through the slit of a visor or a weakly armoured armpit - but such grappling 
leaves both opponents vulnerable in a general melee. 

It's also a rare swordsman who can face down more than one equally defended opponent and live to 
boast about it. Being flanked is a death sentence. The only hope in such a situation is to maintain
positioning that prevents a simultaneous flurry of blows.

Very often, a fight that is not decided in the opening exchanges will go to the man who is fittest, 
or who best chooses how to spend his energies, over-extending his opponent and wearing him down until
his tired arms, or his clumsy footwork, present an opportunity.

Combat is a disorienting, hellish mess; there are no "points" when you score a hit - only shock, 
blood loss, severed limbs, broken morale, trauma, and sepsis. The best way to stay alive is to never
join a fight in which victory is not assured.
